.TH "MXL-INSTALL" "1" "July 2015" "mxl-install 0.5.44" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
mxl-install -- Install alias files.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
mxl install [\-f] [\-f|\-\-force] <args> <@alias=filename>
.br
mxl i [\-f] [\-f|\-\-force] <args> <@alias=filename>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Copy the files referenced by aliases into one or more target directories 
.br
and optionally set the filename for each destination file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-f, \-\-force\fR: Force overwrite existing files.
.EL
.SH "FILES"
.PP
To reference the alias file and use the basename of the alias file for the 
.br
destination just specify the alias: \fB@project\fR.
.PP
To explicitly set the destination file name assign to the alias:

  @project=profile
.PP
Uses the file name \fBprofile.tmux.conf\fR \- the extension is added automatically.
.PP
Files are copied to all of the directories referenced by the \fB\-c\fR options or 
.br
the current working directory if none are specified.
.PP
Destination files may overlap, for example, if both aliases share the same file 
.br
name:

  @git @vim
.PP
Would result in an error as the destination file names conflict. To resolve this 
.br
use explicit file names:

  @git=git\-profile @vim=vim\-profile
.PP
If an alias reference is stale (the file has been moved or deleted) then an 
.br
error is reported, you should invoke \fBprune\fR and try again checking against the 
.br
alias list: \fBmxl alias\fR.
.PP
See \fBmxl\-prune(1)\fR for more information.
.PP
If any of the destination files exist you must specify \fB\-\-force\fR to overwrite.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Copy the file referenced by the alias \fB@home\fR to the current working 
.br
directory as \fBtmux.conf\fR.

  mxl i @home
.PP
Copy the \fB@vim\fR file as \fBeditor.tmux.conf\fR to the current working directory:

  mxl i @vim=editor
.PP
Copy into an alternative directory overwriting if the file exists:

  mxl i @vim \-c ~/project \-f
.PP
Copy multiple aliases into multiple directories:

  mxl i @vim=vim @git=git \-c ~/dir1 \-c ~/dir2
.PP
Will result in the files:

.SP
  ~/dir1/vim.tmux.conf
.br
  ~/dir1/git.tmux.conf
.br
  ~/dir2/vim.tmux.conf
.br
  ~/dir2/git.tmux.conf
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/freeformsystems/mxl/issues.
