.TH "MXL-KILL" "1" "July 2015" "mxl-kill 0.6.4" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
mxl-kill -- Kill sessions, windows and panes.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
mxl kill [\-SWP] [\-S] [\-W] [\-P] <args> <pattern...>
.br
mxl k [\-SWP] [\-S] [\-W] [\-P] <args> <pattern...>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Destroy sessions, windows and panes using regular expression patterns.
.PP
A list is retrieved from \fBtmux\fR of whichever type is the target (session, window or pane) for each item in the list all patterns are matched against all fields, if any pattern matches any field the target is included, use the \fB\-\-noop\fR option to see matches.
.PP
The \fBkill\fR command operates on windows by default.
.PP
When no patterns are passed the effect is to close the current session, window or pane. If patterns are specified and they match the current target, the current target is excluded and a warning is printed.
.PP
If an attempt is made to kill the current session (\fBmxl kill \-S\fR) and the current session is the scratch session or the session is the only session, the request is refused with an error.
.PP
To kill the last session use the \fBquit\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-S\fR: Kill sessions.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-W\fR: Kill windows.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-P\fR: Kill panes.
.EL
.SH "FORMATS"
.PP
The field mappings for sessions are:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{session_id}\fR => id
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{session_name}\fR => name
.EL
.PP
The field mappings for windows are:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{window_id}\fR => id
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{window_name}\fR => name
.EL
.PP
The field mappings for panes are:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{pane_id}\fR => id
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{pane_current_command}\fR => cmd
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB#{pane_current_path}\fR => path
.EL
.PP
See the \fIFORMATS\fR section of tmux(1) for more information.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Kill all windows starting with the \fBvim\fR string at the beginning of the name:

  mxl kill '^vim'
.PP
Kill the sessions \fBcmus\fR and \fBmutt\fR:

  mxl kill \-S cmus mutt
.PP
Kill all other windows:

  mxl kill @
.PP
Kill all other sessions:

  mxl kill \-S '.*'
.PP
Kill all other panes:

  mxl kill \-P %
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/freeformsystems/mxl/issues.
