.TH "MXL-SOURCE" "1" "July 2015" "mxl-source 0.5.58" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
mxl-source -- Source tmux configuration files.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
mxl source [\-e] [\-e|\-\-each] <args>
.br
mxl so [\-e] [\-e|\-\-each] <args>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Invokes \fBtmux source\-file\fR with the configuration files found by evaluating the arguments, use the \fB\-\-noop\fR option to inspect what would be executed.
.PP
Arguments can be directories, files, and aliases which are resolved to configuration files. Every file found is executed against each working directory context, specified using the \fB\-c, \-\-directory [dir ...]\fR option; when not specified the current working directory is used. 
.PP
See mxl\-alias(1) for more information on aliases.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-e, \-\-each\fR: Iterate child directories and set \fB\-c\fR for each directory.
.EL
.SH "EACH"
.PP
The \fB\-\-each\fR switch changes the behaviour of execution to take the value of \fB\-c | \-\-directory\fR (which will be the working directory if not specified) find all direct child directories and iterate the result executing all matched configuration files for each directory found.
.PP
This feature is designed for a project comprising of modules:

.SP
  project
.br
  ├── client
.br
  ├── db
.br
  ├── server
.br
  └── tmux.conf
.PP
You can execute the commands in \fBtmux.conf\fR for each module with:

  cd project && mxl \-\-each
.PP
Typically used to open a window and pane set for all modules of a project from a single configuration file.
.PP
When the \fB\-\-each\fR flag is used the behaviour of \fB\-\-pattern\fR changes to match the child working directory path rather than the configuration file path(s) so that it may be used as a filter.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
Before calls to \fBsource\-file\fR the following environment variables are set using \fBset\-environment \-g\fR:
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmxl_key\fR: An identifier for a session or window.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmxl_name\fR: The name for the window or session.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmxl_session\fR: The name of a session.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmxl_cwd\fR: The working directory for the \fBtmux\fR process.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBmxl_cwdname\fR: The name of the working directory.
.EL
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Source \fBtmux.conf\fR in the current working directory:

  mxl
.PP
Source a file by directory:

  mxl /usr/local/project
.PP
Source all \fB*.tmux.conf\fR files in the current working directory (and \fBtmux.conf\fR if present):

  mxl \-a
.PP
Use a pattern match on the file path to filter results returned with \fB\-a\fR using the \fB\-p\fR option:

  mxl \-a \-p 'test'
.PP
Source a file by alias reference:

  mxl @project
.PP
Source with multiple arguments:

  mxl @project @alt\-project /usr/local/project
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/freeformsystems/mxl/issues.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
mxl\-alias(1), mxl\-list(1)
